> **Preview**
> 
> This product or feature is a preview offering subject to the "Pre-GA Offerings Terms" in the [General Service Terms](https://cloud.google.com/terms/service-terms) section of the Service Specific Terms, and can only be used for the purposes of developing, testing, prototyping, and demonstrating software programs. It cannot be used for any data processing or commercial purposes. Pre-GA products and features are available "as is" and might have limited support. For more information, see the [launch stage descriptions](https://cloud.google.com/products#product-launch-stages) .

The Java client library for Spanner works with Spanner Omni in the same way it works with Spanner. This document shows you how to establish secure connections to Spanner Omni by configuring the Java client library. You establish these connections by setting client options when you create a database administrative client or a database client.

The Java client library supports plain text, TLS, and mTLS connections.

For more information, see [Get started with Spanner in Java](https://docs.cloud.google.com/spanner/docs/getting-started/java) in the Spanner documentation.

## Before you begin

To get started with Spanner Omni in Java, use the Java client library version 6.115.0 or later.

If you use Maven without the Bill of Materials (BOM), add the following to the `pom.xml` file dependencies:

    <dependency>
      <groupId>com.google.cloud</groupId>
      <artifactId>google-cloud-spanner</artifactId>
      <version>6.115.0</version>
    </dependency>

## Configure the `SpannerOptions` object

While you configure the [`SpannerOptions`](https://docs.cloud.google.com/java/docs/reference/google-cloud-spanner/latest/com.google.cloud.spanner.SpannerOptions) object to create a [`DatabaseClient`](https://docs.cloud.google.com/java/docs/reference/google-cloud-spanner/latest/com.google.cloud.spanner.DatabaseClient) or [`DatabaseAdminClient`](https://docs.cloud.google.com/java/docs/reference/google-cloud-spanner/latest/com.google.cloud.spanner.InstanceAdminClient) , specify the Spanner Omni endpoint using `setExperimentalHost()` .

### Use plain-text communication

To establish a plain-text connection, specify the Spanner Omni endpoint and use the `usePlainText()` method:

    SpannerOptions options =
        SpannerOptions.newBuilder()
            .setExperimentalHost("http://ENDPOINT") // Replace with your Spanner Omni endpoint
            .usePlainText()
            .build();
    Spanner spanner = options.getService();

### Use a TLS setup

When you configure the `SpannerOptions` object for a TLS connection, you don't need to set any additional credentials properties. You must add the CA certificate to the Java truststore.

To add the CA certificate to the Java truststore, use the following command:

`sudo keytool -import -trustcacerts -file /.spanner/certs/ca.crt -alias spanner-ca -keystore $JAVA_HOME/lib/security/cacerts`

Alternatively, you can pass a custom CA certificate store directly when you run the application:

`java -Djavax.net.ssl.trustStore= PATH_TO_CUSTOM_CACERTS -Djavax.net.ssl.trustStorePassword=changeit app`

To maintain compatibility, build your custom truststore on top of the Java truststore by making a copy:

` cp $JAVA_HOME/lib/security/cacerts / PATH_TO_CUSTOM_CACERTS  `

### Use an mTLS setup

To use an mTLS connection, convert the key generated by Spanner Omni to a format compliant with Java using the following command:

`openssl pkcs8 -topk8 -in ~/.spanner/certs/client.key -out ~/.spanner/certs/java-client.key -nocrypt`

The following example shows how to configure the `SpannerOptions` object to use a client certificate:

``` 
   SpannerOptions options =
        SpannerOptions.newBuilder()
           .setExperimentalHost("https://ENDPOINT") // Replace with your Spanner Omni endpoint
.useClientCert("PATH_TO_CLIENT_CERT","PATH_TO_CLIENT_CERT_KEY")
.build();
   Spanner spanner = options.getService();
```

## Create the database

Next, create the database. Specify the project as `default` where necessary in the library code. For example, specify `default` when you create a `DatabaseId` :

    DatabaseId dbId = DatabaseId.of("default", "default", DATABASE_ID);
    DatabaseClient client = spanner.getDatabaseClient(dbId);

> **Note:** When using an authentication token with TLS or mTLS for a Spanner Omni endpoint, set the `SPANNER_EXPERIMENTAL_HOST_AUTH_TOKEN` environment variable. Assign it the path of the authentication token generated by the Spanner Omni CLI. For connections that don't require credentials, leave this variable unset. Authentication tokens aren't recommended for client use. This is because tokens generated by Spanner Omni expire and require manual renewal with the Spanner Omni CLI.
