---
name: documents/docs.cloud.google.com/spanner-omni/jdbc-driver
uri: https://docs.cloud.google.com/spanner-omni/jdbc-driver
title: Use the JDBC driver to connect to Spanner Omni
description: A downloadable, self-managed version of Spanner. {% setvar launch_stage %}preview{% endsetvar %} {% include "cloud/_shared/_info_launch_stage_disclaimer.html" %}
data_source: docs.cloud.google.com
---

> **Preview**
> 
> This product or feature is a preview offering subject to the "Pre-GA Offerings Terms" in the [General Service Terms](https://cloud.google.com/terms/service-terms) section of the Service Specific Terms, and can only be used for the purposes of developing, testing, prototyping, and demonstrating software programs. It cannot be used for any data processing or commercial purposes. Pre-GA products and features are available "as is" and might have limited support. For more information, see the [launch stage descriptions](https://cloud.google.com/products#product-launch-stages) .

This document shows you how to use the Spanner JDBC driver to connect your Java applications to Spanner Omni and execute SQL statements.

Java Database Connectivity (JDBC) is a standard Java API that provides a consistent way for applications to interact with relational databases. The Spanner JDBC driver works with Spanner Omni in the same way it works with Spanner.

By using the JDBC driver, you can leverage standard JDBC-compatible tools and libraries with Spanner Omni.

Spanner Omni JDBC connections support three security modes: plain-text, TLS, and mTLS.

For more information, see [Get started with Spanner in JDBC](https://docs.cloud.google.com/spanner/docs/getting-started/jdbc) in the Spanner documentation.

## Connection URL considerations

Because Spanner Omni is not directly connected to a Google Cloud project, the ` projects/ name  ` component is not required in the JDBC connection URL. Similarly, because each Spanner Omni deployment has a single, already-created instance ( `instances/default` ), the ` instances/ name  ` component is optional.

## Establish a Spanner Omni connection

The following examples show how to establish a connection with Spanner Omni using the Spanner JDBC driver for each supported security mode:

### Plain-text communication

To establish plain-text communication, use a connection URL similar to the following:

    String url = "jdbc:spanner://HOST_ADDRESS:PORT/databases/DATABASE_ID;usePlainText=true;isExperimentalHost=true";
    try {
          java.sql.Connection connection = DriverManager.getConnection(url);
          try {
            ResultSet rs = connection.createStatement().executeQuery("SELECT * FROM Singers");
            while (rs.next()) {
              System.out.print(rs.getLong(1) + "\t");
              System.out.println(rs.getString(2));
            }
          } catch (Exception e) {
            System.out.println(e.getMessage());
          }
        } catch (Exception e) {
          System.out.println(e.getMessage());
        }

When using an authentication token with TLS or mTLS for a Spanner Omni endpoint, set the `SPANNER_EXPERIMENTAL_HOST_AUTH_TOKEN` environment variable to the path of the authentication token generated by the Spanner Omni CLI. For connections that don't require credentials, leave this variable unset. Authentication tokens aren't recommended for client use because tokens generated by Spanner Omni expire and require manual renewal with the Spanner Omni CLI.

### TLS connection

To establish a TLS connection, add the CA certificate to the Java truststore or pass it directly when you run the application as instructed in the [Java SDK TLS instructions](https://docs.cloud.google.com/spanner-omni/java#configure-options) . The JDBC URL doesn't require any additional parameters while establishing a TLS connection:

    String url = "jdbc:spanner://HOST_ADDRESS:PORT/databases/DATABASE_ID?isExperimentalHost=true";

### mTLS connection

To establish an mTLS connection, the JDBC URL requires two additional parameters: `clientCertificate` and `clientKey` . These parameters must specify the file paths to the client certificate and client private key, respectively. The client private key must be in a Java-compatible format as mentioned in the [Java SDK mTLS instructions](https://docs.cloud.google.com/spanner-omni/java#configure-options) :

    String url = "jdbc:spanner://HOST_ADDRESS:PORT/databases/DATABASE_ID;clientCertificate=PATH_TO_CLIENT_CERT;clientKey=PATH_TO_CLIENT_KEY;isExperimentalHost=true";
